
 Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) is a mandatory access control mechanism implemented in the kernel. SELinux follows the model of least-privelege more closely.
 By default under a strict enforcing setting, everything is denied and than a series of exception policies are written that give each element of the system ( a service,
 program or user) only the access required to function. If a service, program or user subsequently tries to access or modify a file or resource not necessary for it
 to function, then access is denied, the action is logged. 

 SELinux has three basic installation modes of operation:
 	
	1. Enforcing  - the default mode which will enable and enforce the SELinux security policy on the system, denying access and logging actions.
	2. Permissive - security policy is not enforced, only warns and log actions
	3. Disabled   - SELinux is disabled

 An additional qualifier of targeted, minimum or mls which control how pervasive SELinux rules are applied.

 sestatus(1) tool is available for the managing of the SELinux status. The changes do not persist untill the system reboot. 

 SELinux allows different policies to be written that are interchangable. The default policy is the targeted policy which targets and confines system processes.
 All other system processes and all remaining userspace programs runs in unconfined domain and is not covered by the SELinux protection model.

 SELinux provides a combination of Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), Type Enforcment (TE), and (optionally) a Multi-Level Security (MLS).

 To view a SELinux policy context on a file run commands with -Z switch. semanage(1) is the tool used to configure certain elements of SELinux policy context without
 requiring modification or recompilation from policy source. Contexts follow the SELinux user:role:type:level syntax.

 SELinux user
  
	The SELinux user identity is an identity known to the policy that is authorized for a specific set of roles, and for a specific MLS/MCS range. Each Linux user is 
	mapped to an SELinux user via SELinux policy. This allows Linux users to inherit the restrictions placed on SELinux users. The mapped SELinux user identity is used 
	in the SELinux context to define what levels and roles they can enter. To view a list of mappings between Linux and SELinux users run `semanage login -l`.
	

	Login Name           SELinux User         MLS/MCS Range        Service
	
	__default__          unconfined_u         s0-s0:c0.c1023       *
	root                 unconfined_u         s0-s0:c0.c1023       *
	system_u             system_u             s0-s0:c0.c1023       *

	Output might differ slightly from system to system. For processes, the SELinux user limits which roles and levels are accessible. The MLS/MCS column is the level
	used by Multi Level Security (MLS) and Multi Category Security (MCS).


	Role

	 Part of SELinux is the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) security model. The role field is the attribute of the of RBAC. SELinux users are authorized for roles and
	 roles are authorized for domains. The role serves as an intermediate between domains and SELinux users. The roles that can be entered determine which domain can be
	 entered; ultimarely, this controls which object types can be accessed. 

	Type

	 The type is an attribute of Type Enforcment. The type defines a domain for processes and a type for files. SELinux policy defines how types can access each other,
	 whether it be a domain accessing a type, or a domain accessing another domain. Access is only allowed if a specific SELinux policy rule exists that allows it.  

	Level

	 The level is an attribute of MLS and MCS. An MLS range is a pair of levels, written as lowlevel-highlevel if the levels differ, or lowlevel if the levels are
	 identical (s0-s0 is the same as s0). Each level is a sensitivity category pair, with categories been optional. If there are categories, the level is written
	 as sensitivity:category-set or sensitivity otherwise.

	 If the category set is the contiguous series, it can be abbreviated. For example, c0.c3 is the same as c0,c1,c2,c3. 

  
	

	/etc/selinux/targeted/setrans.config     maps levels to more meaningful form

 ps(1), id(1) and ls(1) allows to see appropriate SELinux context

 Booleans allow part of SELinux policy to be changed at runtime. semanage(1) allows to configure certain elements of SELinux policy without required modification or
 recompilation from policy source.
