
 [DIRECTORIES]


 service unit			.service			system service
 target unit			.target				group of systemd units
 automount unit			.automount			filesystem automount point
 device unit			.device				device file recognized by kernel
 mount unit			.mount				file system mount point
 path unit			.path				file or directory in a file system



 [Unit]
 					contains generic options that are not dependent on the type of the unit. These options provide unit description,
					specify the unit's behavior, and sets dependencies to other units.

 	- Description
					unit description

	- Documentation
					provides a list of URIs referencing documentation for the unit

	- After
					defines the order in which units are started. The unit starts only after the units specified in Aftetr are active.
					Unlike Requires, After does not explicitly activate the specified units. The Before option has the opposite 
					functionality to After.

	- Requires	
					configure dependencies on other units. The units listed in Requires are activated together with the unit. If any of the 
					required units fail to start, the unit is not activated.

	- Wants				
					Configures weaker dependencies than Requires. If any of the listed units does not start successfully, it has no impact on
					the unit activation. This is the recommended way to establish custom unit dependencies.

	- Conflicts	
					Configures negative dependencies, an opposite to Reuires.


 [unit_type]
					lists a type specific directives

	[Service]

		Type
					Configures the unit process startup type that affects the functionality of ExecStart and related options.

					 simple		the default value. The process started with ExecStart is the main process of the service.
					 
					 forking	the process started with ExecStart spawns a child process that becomes the main process of the
							service. The parent process exits when the startup is complete.

					 oneshot	this type is similiar to simple, but the process exits before starting consequent units.
				
					 dbus		this type is similiar to simple, but consequent units are started only after the main process
							gains a D-BUS name.

					 notify		this type is similiar to simple, but consequent units are started only after a notification message
							is sent via the sd_notify() function

					 idle		similiar to simple, the actual execution of the service binary is delayed until all jobs are finished,
							which avoids mixing the status output with shell output of services.

		ExecStart		Specifies commands or scripts to be exectuted when the unit is started. ExecStartPre and ExecStartPost specify custom
					commands to be executed before and after ExecStart. Type=oneshot enables specifying multiple custom commands that are
					then executed sequently.
						
 [Install]
 					contains information about unit installation used by systemctl enable and disable commands.

