
 Partitioning divides disk drive into one or more logical disks. Each partition is treated as a separate disk with its own file system. Partition information is stored in the partition table or
 partition scheme. Before hard disk can be used it needs to have partition scheme configured on it. That will allow hard disk to be divided into partitions and recognized by the Operating System.
 There is two partition tables available:

		· MBR (Master Boot Record) - is the older one thus has more compatibility with all the operating systems and hardware; it allowed up to four primary partitions to be created. In order to allow
															more than four partitions, one of them can be converted into an extended one (logical) in which case it can contain an addtional twenty three (23) partitions taking the 
															total number of partitions to twenty six (26). The number was choosen to match the number of available letters to name the drives. Alternate systems were able to overcome this
															limit if bigger number of logical partitions was required.

															The MBR system has one major limitation that is it is limited to the 2TB of the usable space. Larger disk can be used but only 2TB will be available.
				
		· GPT (GUID Partition Table) - come as a replacement for MBR, and it supports up to 128 partitions without the need to change to convert primary to logical partitions like a MBR requires, hard disks in size of
															Zettabytes. Prior using a GPT several requirements should be satisfied: 
																+   BIOS that supports UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) 
																+   64bit hardware and software 
																+   32bit systems will be able to use GPT formatted disks as a data drive

															MBR and GPT disks can be converted between each other. With the WIndows operating system it will need the entire disk to be erased, while on the Linux systems convertion is possible without
															erasing the data. 

 Up to four partitions can be created 
