
 Neighbors (ARP-NDP)

 TCP/IP uses ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) protocol to transalte an IPv4 address into MAC address (physical network address). It maps layer 3 (IPv4 address) to
 layer 2 (physical or MAC) to enable communication between hosts residing on the same subnet. 

 ARP is used by hosts that directly connected on a local network and uses either or both unicast and broadcast transmissions directly to each other. The host finds
 the physical address of another host on its network by sending an ARP query packet that includes the IP address of the receiver. As a broadcast protocol, it can 
 create excessive amounts of network traffic. To minimize the broadcast traffic, an ARP cache is maintained to store and reuse previously learned ARP information.

 NDP in IPv6 is similar to ARP in IPv4. The main purpose of both protocols is to enable a host (node) to determine the link layer address (MAC address) of the node
 it wants to communicate with in the local area network, and to find out the link layer address of the router through which it can access a node in an external network.
 Thus, the actual exchange of the messages can take place between the two nodes. Apart from neighbour discovery, NDP functionality includes router discovery, neighbor
 presence, redirects, network options (as in DHCP options) and stateless auto-configuration. Similar to ARP, NDP is also susceptible to flooding and poisoning attacks.

 NDP has neighbor solicitations analogous to ARP request and neighbor advertisements to ARP replies. Unsolicited neighbor advertisements in IPv6 correspond to
 gratuitous ARP replies in IPv4. Static neighbor configuration projects the neighbor cache from trusted or vulnerable nodes in the network. Static neighbor discovery
 helps to prevent solicit requests for configured entries and ignores any incoming solicit or advertised ND for configured entries.

 Run `arp -a` or `ip neigh show` to list ARP tables (arp_cache) and `ip ntable show` to display neighbour table (ndisc_cache).
